# Collections

In Dart, collections are used to store and manage groups of related objects. Dart provides several types of collections, each with its own characteristics and use cases. In this lesson, we'll explore three main types of collections: lists, sets, and maps.

## List

Perhaps the most common collection in nearly every programming language is the array, or ordered group of objects. In Dart, arrays are List objects, so most people just call them lists.

`
List<int> x = [5,4]
`

### Operations

- Accessing elements by index: `numbers[0]`
- Adding elements: `numbers.add(6)`
- Removing elements: `numbers.remove(3)`
- Iterating through elements: `for (var number in numbers)`

## Set

A set in Dart is an unordered collection of unique items.

`
var chars = {'a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e'};
`

### Operations 

- Adding elements: `uniqueColors.add('yellow')`
- Removing elements: `uniqueColors.remove('red')`
- Checking membership: `uniqueColors.contains('green')`

#### Usage

1. Uniqueness of Elements:
Sets do not allow duplicate elements. If you need to store a collection of unique items and ensure that each item is distinct, a Set is an ideal choice.

2. Efficient Membership Testing:
Checking whether an element is present in a set is an O(1) operation, making it highly efficient. This is particularly beneficial when dealing with large datasets where quick membership tests are crucial.

3. Mathematical Set Operations:
Sets support common set operations such as union, intersection, and difference. This is useful when you need to perform operations on two sets of data.

4. No Fixed Order:
Sets are unordered collections, meaning there's no fixed order in which elements are stored. This can be an advantage in scenarios where the order of elements is not important, and you want to focus on uniqueness and 

# Maps

In general, a map is an object that associates keys and values. Both keys and values can be any type of object. Each key occurs only once, but you can use the same value multiple times.

`
Map<String, String> gifts = {
    'first': 'partridge',
  'second': 'turtledoves',
  'fifth': 'golden rings'
}

OR

var gifts = Map<String, String>();
gifts['first'] = 'partridge';
gifts['second'] = 'turtledoves';
gifts['fifth'] = 'golden rings';

assert(gifts['foo'] == null); // true
`

# Notes

- To create a map, set, list that’s a compile-time constant, add const before the map literal

`
final constantMap = const {
  2: 'helium',
  10: 'neon',
  18: 'argon',
};
`